Star Wars: The Force Awakens is a 2015 American epic space opera film directed, co-produced, and co-written by J. J. Abrams.
The seventh installment in the main Star Wars film series, it stars Harrison Ford, Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Adam Driver, Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Lupita Nyong'o, Andy Serkis, Domhnall Gleeson,
Anthony Daniels, Peter Mayhew, and Max von Sydow.Produced by Lucasfilm and Abrams' Bad Robot Productions and distributed worldwide by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, The Force Awakens is set approximately
30 years after Return of the Jedi (1983), and follows Rey, Finn, and Poe Dameron's fight with the Resistance, led by veterans of the Rebel Alliance, against Kylo Ren and the First Order, descended from the
Galactic Empire. The Force Awakens is the first film in the Star Wars sequel trilogy announced after Disney's acquisition of Lucasfilm in October 2012. The film is produced by Lucasfilm president
Kathleen Kennedy, Abrams, and his long-time collaborator Bryan Burk. Lawrence Kasdan, co-writer of the original trilogy films The Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi, and Abrams rewrote
an initial script by Michael Arndt. John Williams, composer for the previous six films, returned to compose its score. Star Wars creator George Lucas served as creative consultant during the film's
early production stages. Filming began in April 2014 in Abu Dhabi and Iceland, with principal photography also taking place in Ireland and Pinewood Studios in England.
The Force Awakens premiered in Los Angeles on December 14, 2015, and was released on December  18, 2015, in 2D, 3D, and IMAX 3D, more than 10 years after the release of the franchise's last major installment,
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith (2005). Disney backed the film with an extensive marketing campaign, and it is expected to generate huge revenues at the box office.[7] Critics compared it
favorably to the original trilogy, praising its action sequences, characters, acting, and emotional drama, but drew some criticisms as being derivative of the original Star Wars.